First day in AWS Management Console

IAM - Making a user with ADMIN permissions
Logged onto Root to access IAM to enable MFA and create a new user

Access IAM from the search bar, then click on the left side USER, and then Create User.
Then submit the requested information including IAM user management and autogenerate password.

In Step three of the permissions, to make a new admin group click "Create New Group" and enter Admin into the "User Group Name" then select AdministratorAccess to give nearly all permissions that root user has.
Add tags if you wish and then proceed to create user.

When signing into the new user, when prompted to enter a new password it is advised to use a secure password generator with 48 characters including difficult symbols and characters

Final thoughts. I didn't have the same screen and options as the tutorial I was watching online. I will have to reference the course I have coming up in a few days to ensure I properly understand how to implement all features required to make a successful user.
I am currently getting an error as follows that I need to figure out.:
User: arn:aws:iam::381492189932:user/WilliamBiggar
Service: servicecatalog
Action: ListApplications
On resource(s): arn:aws:servicecatalog:us-east-2:381492189932:/applications/*

AWS Region Selector

Typically the Region is defaulted to Ohio or US East 2. But we should swap it to US East 1 so that we get access to original features. Billing and such will only show up in US East 1.
Other services like Cloud Front are global services. Additionally S3 is global but EC2 is exclusive to US East 1.

Overbilling 
Benefit - Utilizes Metered Billing, however it can be a double edge sword and can become very expensive if left unattended
An example - ElastiCache - Redis Instance - The guy was trying to store a single value but AWS likes to put the Node type as cache l6g large (13.07GB) as a default
Cost of l6g large (13.07GB) is 0.206 per hour. 0.206*730 (730 is the amount of time in a month) equates to $150 dollars of spending.

If this happens you can go to customer support and create a case in the Billing and "Charge Inquiry" section. If you explain nicely to customer support that the error was made they will typically give you a free pass on the first time and warn you
that in the future the bill will remain.

AWS Budgets
Type Budget in search and select AWS Budgets
The first two AWS actions are free

Before making a budget ensure that on root account IAM user and role access to Billing Information is set to Active. This can be found in Account > Billing and Payments and scrolling down to find the option

Navigate to Billing Console > Budgets > Create budget

SNS Notifications
Many things can be connected to send SNS to email etc for updates and changes

AWS Free Tier - First 12 months
To learn about all the features go to google and search "AWS Free Tier Details"
Some features are only available the first two months
To check if you are still in the AWS Free Tier navigate to Billing and Cost Management > Billing Preferences > then select Receive Free Tier Usage Alerts and enter an email address to receive updates
Also turn on Billing alerts - I didn't find the way to do that it may be deprecated 

Billing Alarm - Old way but recommended because of flexability 
They do cost money
CloudWatch - Billing - Alarms - Set rules to establish the alarm and arrange for email to have notifications sent

Root User - Multifactor Authentication
IAM - Front page set up MF authentication
Put device name and then select an option. Personally I use athenticator app
Download authenticator app to verify by scanning QR code provided and giving two required keys

Innovation waves
Kondratieve waves (aka Innovation Waves or K-Waves) are hypothosized cycle-like phenomena in the global world economy. The phenomenon is closely connected with Technology life cycles. 
It is made up of four stages Prosperity, recession, depression, improvement

Burning platform
a term used when a company abandons old technology for new technology with the uncertainty of success and can be motivated by fear that the organizations future survival hinges on its digital transformation

Digital Transformation Checklist
High level white paper to allow information to share with executives and key decision makers to determine what is required to make required digital changes to the organization

Evolution of Computing Power
General computing (Xeon CPU Processor) - Elastic Compute Cloud EC2, GPU Computing (roughly 50 times faster than traditional CPUs) - AWS Inferentiare (Inf1), Quantum Computing (D-Wave 2000Q, Rigetti 16q Aspen-4, IonQ linear ion trap, 100 million times faster)

Amazon Braket - Quantum Computing - AWS list is missing both Fault Tolerance and Disaster Recovery as important benefits

The Benefits of the Cloud
- Agility
  - Increase your speed and agility
- Pay-as-you go pricing
  - Trade capital expense for variable expense
- Economy of scale
  - Benefit from massive economies of scale
- Global Reach
  - Go global in minutes
- Security
-Reliability
  - Stop spending money on running and maintaining data centers
- High availability
- Scalability
  - benefit from massive economies of scale
- Elasticity

The Six Advantages of the Cloud - Defined by AWS (original descriptionf of Cloud Benefits

1. Trade capital expense for variable expense
You can Pay On-Demand meaning there is no upfront-cost and you pay for only what you consume or pay by the hour, minutes or seconds.
Instead of paying for upfront costs of data centers and servers
2. Benefit from massive economies of scale
You are sharing the cost with other customers to get unbeatable savings.
Hundreds of thousands of customers utilizing a fraction of a server
3. Scale up or down to meet the current need. Launch and destroy services whenever
Instead of paying for idle or underutilized servers
4. Increase speed and agility
Launch resources within a few clicks in minutes
Instead of waiting days or weeks of your IT to implement the solution on-premise
5. Stop spending money on running and maintaining data centers
Focus on your own customers, developing and configuring your applications
Instead of operations such as racking, stacking, and powering servers
6. Go global in minutes
Deploy your app in multiple regions around the world with a few clicks
Provide lower latency and a better experience for your customer at minimal cost

The Six Advantages of Cloud Doc Reference
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/whitepapers/latest/aws-overview/six-advantages-of-cloud-computing.html

Updated - The Benefits of the Cloud - The Seven Advantages of Cloud
1. Cost-effective
Yuo pay for what you consume, no up-front cost. On-demand pricing or Pay-as-you-go (PAYG) with thousands of customers sharing the cost of the resources
2. Global 
Launch workloads anywhere in the world. Just choose a region
3. Secure
Cloud provider takes care of physical security. Cloud services can be secure by default or you have the ability to configure access down to a granular level.
4. Reliable
Data backup, disaster recovery, data replication, and fault tolerance
5. Scalable
Increase or decrease resources and services based on demand
6. Elastic 
Automate scaling during spikes and drop in demand
7. Current
The underlying hardware and managed software is patched, upgraded and replaced by the cloud provider without interruption to you

AWS Global Infrastructure
What is it?
The AWS Global Infrastructure is globally distributed hardware and datacenters that are physically networked together to act as one large resource for the end customer

The AWS Global Infrastructure is made up of the following resources:
- 33 Launched Regions
- 105 Availability Zones
- 115 Direct Connection Locations
- 600+ Points of Presence
- 41 Local Zone
- 29 Wavelength Zones

Reference: https://aws.amazon.com/about-aws/global-infrastructure/

When a new area is first opened the Availability Zones should be at a minimum 3 because that is how you achieve high availability

Regions
Regions are geographically distinct locations consisting of one or more Availability Zones.
- Every region is physically isolated from an independent of every other region in terms of location, power, water supply

Each region generally has three Availability Zones
- Some new users are limited to two eg. US-West 
- New services are almost always available first in US-EAST
- Not all AWS Services are available in all regions
- All your billing inforamtion appears in US-EAST-1 (North Virginia)
- The cost of AWS services vary per region

When you choose a region there are four factors you need to consider:
1. What Regulatory compliance does this region meet?
2. What is the cost of AWS services in this region?
3. What AWS services are available in this region?
4. What is the distance or latency to my end-users?

Regions vs Global Services
Regional Services
AWS scopes their AWS Management Console on a selected Region.
- This will determine where an AWS service will be launched and what will be seen within an AWS Service's console
- You generally don't explicitly set the Region for a service at the time of creation
Global Services
Some AWS Services operate across multiple regions and the region will be fixed to "Global" e.g. Amazon S3, CloudFront, Route53, IAM
For these global services at the time of creation:
- There is no concept of region (IAM User)
- A single region must be explicitly chosen (S3 Bucket)
- A group of regions are chosen (CloudFront Distribution)

Availability Zones (AZs)
An Availability Zone (AZ) is physical location made up of one or more datacenter

A datacenter is a secured building that contains hundreds of thousands of computers.

A region will generally* contain 3 Availability Zones

Datacenters within a region will be isolated from each other (different buildings). But they will be close enough to provide low-latency (<10ms).

Its common practice to run workloads in at least 3 AZs to ensure services remain available in case one or two datacenters fail. (High Availability)

AZs are represented by a Region Code, followed by a letter identifier eg. us-east-1a

A Subnet is associated with an Availability Zone

You never choose the AZ when launching resources. You choose the Subnet with is associated to the AZ.

****Selecting regions and AZs - Instructuions weren't super clear in video please referene timestamp roughly 2:20:00

Fault Tolerance
What is a fault domain?
A fault domain is a section of a network that is vulnerable to damage if a critical device or system fails. The purpose of a fault domain is that if a failure occurs it will not cascade outside that domain, limiting the damage possible.

You can have fault domains nested inside fault domains

What is a fault level?
A fault level is a collection of fault domains
- An AWS Region would be a Fault level - Fault Level = us-east-1 (region)
- A Availability Zone would be a Fault Domain - Fault Domain = us-east-1a (AZ), Fault Domain = usa-east-b (AZ)

The scope of a fault domain could be:
- specific servers in a rack
- an entire rack in a data center
- an entire room in a datacenter
- the entire data center building
It's up the the Cloud Service Provider (CSPs) to define the boundaries of a domain

Each Amazon Region is designed to be completely isolated from the other Amazon Regions.
- This achieves the greatest possible fault tolerance and stability
Each Availability Zone is isolated, but the Availability Zones in a Region are connected through low-latency links
Each Availability Zone is designed as an independent failure zone
- A "Failure Zone" is AWS describing a Fault Domain

Failure Zone
- Availability Zones are physically separated within a typical metropolitan region and are located in lower risk flood plains
- discrete uninterruptible power supply (UPS) and onsite backup generation facilities
- data centers located in different Availability Zones are designed to be supplied by independent substations to reduce the risk of an event oon the power grid impacting more than one Availability Zone
- Availability Zones are all redundantly conencted to multiple tier-1 transit providers

Multi-AZ for High Availability
If an appklication is partitioned across AZs, companies are better isolated and protected from issues such as power outages, lightning strikes, tornadoes, earthquakes, and more

AWS Global Network
The AWS Global Network represent the interconnections between AWS Global Infrastructure. Commonly referred to as the "Backbone of AWS'. Think of it as private expressway, where things can move very fast between datacenters
Edge Locations can act as on and off ramps to the AWS Global Network
  On Ramps - AWS Global Accelerator, AWS S3 Transfer Acceleration - Uses Edge Locations as an on-ramp to quickly reach AWS resources in other regions by travsersing the fast AWS Global Network
  Off Ramps - Amazon CloudFront (CDN) - Uses Edge Locations as an off-ramp, to provide at the Edge storage and compute near the end user.
              VPC Endpoints - Ensuring your resources stay within the AWS Network and do not traverse over the public Internet

Global Infrastructure - Points of Presence (PoP)
Is an intermediate location between an AWS Region and the end user, and this location could be a datacenter or collection of hardware.
  For AWS a Point of Presence is a datacenter owned by AWS or a trusted partner that is utilized by AWS Service related for content delivery or expediated upload
PoP resources are:
- Edge Locations
- Regional Edge caches
Edge Locations are datacenters that hold cached (copy) on the most popular files (eg web pages, images, and videos) so that the delivery of distance to the end users are reduced
Regional Edge Locations aer datacenters that hold much larger caches of less-popular files to reduce a full round trip and also to reduce the cost of transfer fees
PoPs live at the edge/intersection of two networks

Tier 1
Tier 1 Network is a network that can reach every other network on the Internet without purchasing IP transit or paying for peering
AWS Availability Zones are all redundantly connected to multiple tier-1 transit providers

AWS Services using PoPs
The following AWS Services use PoPs for content delivery or expediated upload

Amazon CloudFront is a Content Delivery network (CDN) service that:
- You point your website to CloudFront so that it will route requests to nearest Edge Location cache
- allows you to choose an origin (such as a web-server or storage) that will be source of cached
- caches the contents of what origin would returned to various Edge Locations around the world

Amazon S3 Transfer Acceleration allows you to generate a special URL that can be used by end users to upload files to nearby Edge Location. Once a file is uploaded to an Edge Location, it can move much faster within the AWS Network to reach S3

AWS Global Acceslerator can find the optimal path from the end user to your web-servers. Global Accelerator are deployed within Edge Locations so you send user traffic to an Edge Location instead of directly to your web-application

AWS Direct Connect
is a private (doesn't mean secure)/dedicated connection between your datacenter, office, co-location and AWS

Direct Connect has two very-fast network connection options:
1. Lower Bandwidth 50MBps-500MBps
2. Higher Bandwidth 1GBps or 10 GBps

A colocation (aka carrier-hotel_ is a data center where equipment, space, and bandwidth are available for rental to retail customers

It Helps reduce network costs and increase bandwidth throughpout (great for high traffic networks)
It provides a more consistent network experience than a typical internet-based connection. (reliable and secure)

Direct Connect Locations
Direct connect Locations are trusted partnered datacenters that you can establish a dedicated high speed, low-latency connection from your on-premise to AWS
You would yuse the AWS Direct connect service to order and establish a connection

Local Zones
are datacenters located very close to a densely populated area to provide single-digit millisecond low latency performance (eg 7ms) for that area
- LA, california was the first Local Zone to be deployed
  - It is a logical extension of the US-West Region
  - The Identifier looks like the following: us-west-2-lax-1a
- Only specific AWS Services have been made available
  - EC2 Instance Types (T3, C5, R5, R5d, l3en, G4)
  = EBS (io1 and gp2)
  - Amazon FSx
  - Application Load Balancer
  - Amazon VPC

The purpose of Local Zone is they support highly-demanding applications sensitive to latencies:
- Media and Entertainment
- Electronic Design Automation
- Ad-Tech
- Machine Learning

Wavelength Zones
allows for edge-computing on 5G networks. Applications will have ultra-low latency being as close as possible to the users

AWS has partnered with various Telecom companies to utilize their 5G networks, such as: verizon, KDDI, vodafone, SK telecom

You create a Subnet tied to a Wavelength zone and then you can launch Virtual Machines (VMs) to the edge of the targeted 5G Networks

Data Residency
Is the physical or geographic location of where an organization or cloud resources reside.

Compliance Boundaries: A regulatory compliance (legal requirement) by a government or organization that describes where data and cloud resources are allowed to reside.

Data Sovereignty: Data Sovereignty is the jurisdictional control or legal authority that can be asserted over data because it's physical location is within jurisdictional boundaries

For workloads that need to meet compliance boundaries strictly defining the data residency of data and cloud resources in AWS you can use:
- AWS Outposts is physical rack of servers that you can put in your data center. Your data will reside wherever the Outpost Physicall resides
- AWS Config: a Policy as Code service. You can create rules for continuous check AWS resources configuration. If they deviate from your expectations you are alerted or AWS Config can in some cases auto-remediate
- IAM Policies: can be written explicitly deny acess to specific AWS Regions. A Service Control Policy (SCP) are permissions applied organization wide.

AWS For Government
Public Sector includes military, law enforcement, infrastructure, public transit, public education, health care, the government itself
AWS can be utilized by public sector or organizations developing cloud workloads for the public sector
AWS achieves this by meeting regulatory compliance programs along with specific governance for security controls
Compliance Bodies: HIPAA, FedRAMP, CJIS, FIPS
AWS has special regions for US regulation called GovCloud

GovCloud 
Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP)
a US government-wide program that provides a standardized approach to security assessments, authorization, and continuous monitoring for cloud products and services.

What is GovCloud?
A Cloud Service Provider (CSP) generally will offer an isolated region to run FedRAMP workloads.

AWS GovCloud Regions allow customers to host sensitive Controlled Unclassified Information and other types of regulated workloads.
- GovCloud Regions are only operated by employees who are US citizens, on US soil.
- They are only accessible to US entities and root account holders who pass a screening process
Customers can architect secure cloud solutions that comply with:
- FedRAMP High baseline
- DOJs Criminal Justice Information Systems (CJIS) Security Policy
- US International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR)
- Export Administration Regulations (EAR)
- Department of Defense (DoD) Cloud Computing Security Requirements Guide

AWS in China
AWS China is the AWS cloud offerings in Mainland China.
  AWS China is completely isolated intentionally from AWS Global to
  meet regulatory compliance for Mainland China
  AWS China is on its own domain at: amazonaws.cn

In order to operate in a AWS China Region you need to have a Chinese Business License (ICP license)
Not all services are available in China (eg Route53)
Running in Mainland China (insetad of Singapore) means you will not need to traverse The Great Firewall

AWS has two Regions in Mainland china:
Ningxia CN-NorthWest-1 Operated by NSWCF
Beijing CN-North-1 operated by SINNET

Sustainability
Amazon co-founded the Climate Pledge to achieve Net_Zero Carbon Emissions by 2040 across all of Amazon's business (this includes AWS) sustainability.aboutamazon.com

AWS Cloud's Sustainability goals are composed of three parts:
1. Renewable Energy
AWS is working towards having their AWS Global Infrastructure powered by 100% renewable energy by 2025
2. Cloud Efficieny
AWS infrastructure is 3.6 times more energy efficient than the median of US enterprise data centers surveyed (could be heavly skewed)
3. Water Stewardship
Direct evaporative technology to cool the data centers
Use of non-potable water for cooling purposes (recycled water)
On site water treatment allows us to remove scale-forming minerals and reuse water for more cycles
Water efficiency metrics to determine and monitor optimal water use for each AWS Region

AWS Ground Station
is a fully managed service that lets you control satellite communications, process data, and scale your operations without having to worry about building or managing your own ground station infrastructure
Use Cases for Ground Station: weather forcasting, surface imaging, communications, video broadcasts
To use Ground Station:
- CYou schedule a Contact (select stellite, start and end time ,and the ground location)
- use the AWS Ground Station EC2 AMI to launch EC2 instances that will uplink and downlink data during the contact or receive downlink data in an Amazon S3 bucket.
Use Case: A company reaches an agreement with a Satellite Imagery Provider to take stellite photos of a specific region. They use AWS Ground Station to communicate that company's Satellite and download the S3 image data.

AWS Outposts
is a fully managed service that offers the same AWS infrastructuer, AWS services, APIs, and tools to virtually any datacenter, co-location space, or on-premise facility for a truly consistent hybrid experience.
AWS Outposts is rack of servers running AWS Infrastructure on your physical location
Server Rack: A frame design t ohold and organize IT equipment
Rack Heights: U stands for "rack units" or "U spaces" which is equal to 1.75 inches. The industry standard rack size is 48U(7 Foot Rack)
Full-size rack cage is 42U high
- equipment is typically 1U, 2U, 3U, or 4U high
AWS Outposts comse in 3 form factors: 42U, 1U and 2U
42U -AWS delivers the server to your preferred physical site fully assembled and ready to be rolled into final position. It is installed by AWS and the rack needs to be simply plugged into power and network

Both 1U and 2U are servers that you can place into your existing Racks:
1U suitable for 19-inch wide
24-inch deep cabinets
AWS Graviton2 (up to 64 vCPUs)
128 GiB memory
4 TB of local NVMe storage

2U suitable for 19-inch wide
36-inch deep cabinets,
Intel processor (up to 128 vCPUs)
256 GiB memory
8TB of local NVMe storage

Cloud Architecture Terminology
Solutions Architect: A role in a technocal organization that architects a technical solution using multiple systems via researching, documentation, experimentation
Cloud Architect: A solution architect that is focused solely on architecting technical solutions using cloud services.

A cloud architect needs to understand the following terms and factor them into their designed architecture based on the business requirements
- Availability - Your ability to ensure a service remains available eg Highly Avaible (HA)
- Scalability - Your ability to grow rapidly or unimpeded
- Elasticity - Your ability to shrink and grow to meet the demand
- Faulth Tolerance - Your ability to prevent a failure
- Disaster Recovery - Your ability to recover from a failure eg Highly Durable (DR)

A solutions architect needs to always consider teh following business factors:
- (Security) How secure is this solution?
- (Cost) How much is this going to cost?

1. High Availability
Your ability for your service to remain available by ensuring there is *no single point of failure and/or ensure a certain level of performance
Running your workload across multiple Availability Zones ensures that if 1 or 2 AZs become unavailable your service / applications remains available.
Elastic Load Balancer: A load balancer allows you to evenly distribute traffic to multiple servers in one or more datacenter. If a datacenter or server becomes unavailable (unhealthy) the load balancer will route the traffic to only available datacenters with servers.

2. High Scalability 
Your ability to increase your capacity based on the increasing demand of traffic, memory and computing power
Vertical Scaling: Scaling Up - Upgrade to a bigger server
Horizontal Scaling: Scaling Out - Add more servers of the same size

3. High Elasticity
Your abiltiy to automatically increase or decrease your capacity based on the current demand of traffic, memory and computing power
Horizontal Scaling
  Scaling Out - Add more servers of thes ame size
  Scaling In - Removing underutilized servers of the same size
Vertical Scaling is generally hard for traditional architecture so you'll usually only see horizontal scaling described with Elasticity
Auto Scaling Groups (ASG) is an AWS feature that will automatically add or remove servers based on scaling rules you define based on metrics

4. Fault Tolerance
Your ability for your service to ensure there is no single point of failure. Preventing the chance of failure
Failovers is when you have a plan to shift traffic to a redundant system in case the primary system fails
A common example is having a comy (secondary) of your database where all ongoing changes are synced. The secondary system is not in-use until a fail over occurs and it becomes the primary database.
RDS Multi-AZ is when you run a duplicate standby database in another Availability Zone in case your primary database fails.

5. High Durability
Your ability to recover from a disaster and to prevent the loss of data Solutions that recover from a disaster is known as Disaster Recovery (DR)
- Do you have a backup?
- How fast can you restore that backup?
- Does your backup still work?
- How do you ensure current live data is not corrupt?
CloudEndure Disaster Recovery continuously replicates your machines into a low-cost staging area in your target AWS account and preferred Region enabling fast and reliable recovery in case of IT data center failures

Business Continuity Plan (BCP)
A business continuity plan (BCP) is a document that outlines how a business will continue operating during an unplanned disruption in services
Recovery Point Objective (RPO): the maximum aacceptable amount of data loss after an unplanned data-loss incident, expressed as an amount of time. (How much data are you willing to lose)
Recovery Time objective (RTO): the maximum amount of downtime your business can tolerate without incurring a significant financial loss (How much time are you willing to go down?)

Disaster Recovery Options
There are multiple options for recovery that trade cost vs time to recover
Backup and Restore - RPO/RTO - Hours - You backup your data and restore it to new infrastructure
  - Lower priority use cases
  - Restore data after event
  - Deploy resources after event
  - Cost $
Pilot Light - RPO/RTO - 10 minutes - Data is replicated to another region with the minimal services running
  - Less stringent RPO/RTO
  - Core Services
  - Start and scale resources after event
  - Cost $$
Warm Standby - RPO/RTO - Minutes - Scaled down copy of your infrastructure running ready to scale up
  - Business Critical Services
  - Scale resources after event
  - Cost $$$
Multi-site Active/active - RPO/RTO - Real-time - Scaled up copy of your infrastructure in another region
  - Zero downtime
  - Near zero loss
  - Mission critical services
  - cost $$$$

Recovery Time Objective (RTO)
is the maximum acceptable delay between the interruption of service and restoration of service. This objective determines what is considered an acceptable time windown when service is unavailable and is defined by the organization

Recovery Point objective (RPO)
is the maximum acceptable amount of time since the last data recovery point. This objective determines what is considered an acceptable loss of data between the last recovery point and the interruption of service and is defined by the organization

Architecture Diagrams
- Adobe XP
- AWS Architectural Icons
- AWS Architecture Icons Deck

AWS API
An Application Prrogramming Interface (API, is software that allows two applications/services to talk to each other. The most common type of API is via HTTP/S requests
AWS API is an HTTP API and you can interact by sending HTTPS requests, using an application interacting with APIs like Postman
Each AWS Service has its own Service Endpoint which you send requests. The following is an example
GET/HTTP/1.1
host: monitoring.us-east-1.amazonaws.com
x-amz-target: GraniteServiceVersion20100801.GetMetricData
x-amz-date: 20180112T092034Z
Autorization: AWS4-HMAC-SHA256 Credential=REDACTEDREDACTED/20180411/...... (To authorize use you will need generate a signed request. You make a separate request with your AWS credentials and get back a token)
Content-Type: application/json
Accept: application/json
Content-Encoding: amz-1.0
Content-Length: 45
Connection: keep-alive
(Also need to provide an ACTION and accompanying parameters as the payload)

AWS Management Console
The Console is a web-based unified console that allows one to build, manage, and monitor everything from simple web apps to complex cloud deployments
Point and Click to manually launch and configure AWS resources with limited programming knowledge.
This is known as "ClickOps" since you can perform all your system operations via clicks.

Amazon Resource Name (ARN)
ARNs uniquely identify AWS resources. ARNs are required to specify a resource unambiguously across all of AWS
ARNs have the following formats
arn:partition:service:region:account-id:resource-id
arn:partition:service:region:account-id:resource-type/resource-id
arn:partition:service:region:account-id:resource-type:resource-id

Partitions:
aws - AWS Regions
aws-cn - China Regions
aws-us-gov - AWS GovCloud (US) Regions
Service - Identifies the service:
ec2
s3
iam
Region - which AWS resource
us-east-1
ca-central-1
AccountID:
121212121212
123445678912
Resource ID
Could be a number, name or path:
user/Bob
instance/i-1234567980wrjdvnwn0
In the AWS Management Console its common to be able to copy the ARN to your clipboard

Shared Responsibility Model
Customers are responsible for Security IN the Cloud: Data, Configuration
AWS is responsible for Security OF the Cloud: Hardware, Operation of Managed Services, Global Infrastructure
Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS)
Bare Metal - EC2 Bare Metal Instance
  Customer: The Host OS Configuration
  AWS: Physical Machine
Virtual Machine - Elastic Cloud Compute (EC2)
  Customer: The Guest OS Configuration, Container Runtime
  AWS: Hypervisor, physical Machine
Containers - AWS Elastic Container Service (ECS)
  Customer: Configuration, Deployment of Containers, Storage of containers
  AWS: The OS, The Hypervisor, Container Runtime
Platform as a Service (PaaS)
Managed Platform - AWS Elastic Beanstalk
  Customer: Uploading your code, Some configuration of environment, Deployment strategies, configuration of associated services
  AWS: Servers, OS, Networking, Storage, Security
Software as a Service (SaaS) 
Content Collaboration - Amazon WorkDocs
  Customer: Contents of documents, management of files, configuration of sharing access controls
  AWS: Servers, OS, Networking, Storage, Security
Function as a Service (FaaS)
Functions - AWS Lambda
  Customer: Upload your code
  AWS: Deployment, Container Runtime, networking, Storage, Security, Physical Machine, (basically everything)

Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) allows you to launch Virtual Machines (VM)
A Virtual Machine (VM) is an emulation of a physical computer using software. Server Virtualization allows you to easily create, copy, resize or migrate your server.
Multiple VMs can run on the same physical server so you can share the cost with other customers.
Imagine if your server or computer was an excutable file on your computer

When a VM is launched it is called an instance

EC2 is highly configurable server where you can choose AMI (Amazone Machine Image is a predefined configuration for a Virtual Machine) that affects options such as:
- The amount of CPUs
- The amout of Memory (RAM)
- The amount of Network Bandwidth
- The Operation System (OS) eg Windows 10, Ubuntu, Amazon Linux 2
- Attach multiple virtual hard-drives for storage eg Elastic Block Store (EBS)
EC2 is also considered the backbone of AWS because the majority of AWS services are using EC2 as their underlying servers. eg S3, RDS, DynamoDB, Lambdas

Computing Services
Virtual Machines - an emulation of a physical computer using software
  Amazon LightSail is the managed virtual server service. It is the "friendly" version of EC2 Virtual Machines
    When you need to launch a Linux or Windows server but don't have much AWS knowledge. eg. Launch a Wordpress
Containers - virtualizing an Operation System (OS) to run multiple workloads on a single OS instance. Containers are generally used in micro-service architecture (when you divide your application into smaller applications that talk to each other)
  Elastic Container Service (ECS) is a container orchestration service that support Docker containers. Launches a cluster of server(s) on EC2 instances with Docker installed.
    When you need Docker as a service you need to run containers.
  Elastic Container Registry (ECR) is repository for container images. In order to launch a container you need an image. An image just means a saved copy. A repository just means a storage that has version control
  ECS Fargate is serverless orchestration container service. it is the same as ECS except you pay-on-demand per running container (With ECS you have to keep an EC2 server running even if you have no containers running ) AWS manages the underlying server, so you don't have to scale or upgrade the EC2 server
  Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS) is a fully managed Kubernetes service. Kubernetes (K8) is an open-source orchestration software that was created by Google and is generally the standard for managing microservices (When you need to run Kubernetes as a Service)
Serverless - when the underlying servers are managed by AWS. You don't worry or configure servers
  AWS Lambda is a serverless functions service. You can run code without provisioning or managing servers. You upload small pieces of code, choose how much memory and how long the function is allowed to run before timing out. You are charged based on the runtime of the serverless function rounded to the nearest 100ms

Higher Performance Computing Services
The Nitro System is a combination of dedicated hardware and lightweight hypervisor enabling faster innovation and enhanced security. All new EC2 instance types use the Nitro System.
- Nitro Cards - specialized cards for VPC, EBS and Instance Storage and controller card
- Nitro Security Chips - Integrated into motherboard. Protects hardware resources.
Nitro Hypervisor - lightweight hypervisor Memory and CPU allocation Bare Metal-like performance
Bare Metal Instance: You can launch EC2 instance that have no hypervisor so you can run workloads directly on the hardware for maximum performance and control. The M5 and R5 EC2 instances run are bare metal
Bottlerocket is a Linux-based open-source operation system that is purpose-built by AWS for running containers on Virtual Machines or bare metal hosts

What is a High Performance Computing (HPC)? 
A cluser of hundreds of thousands of servers with fast connections between each of them with the purpose of boosting computing capacity.
  When you need a supercomputer to perform computational problems too large to run on a standard computers or would take to long

AWS ParallelCluster is an AWS-supported open source cluster management tool that makes it easy for you to deploy and manage High Performance Computing (HPC) clusters on AWS.

Edge and Hybrid Computing Services
Edge Computing is when you push your computing workloads outside of your networks to run close to the destination location
  eg pushing computing to run on phones, IoT Devices, or external servers not within your cloud network
Hybrid Computing is when you're able to run workloads on both your on-premise datacenter and AWS Virtual Private Cloud (VPC)
Services: 
  AWS Outposts is a physical rack of servers that you can put in your data center. AWS Outposts allows you to use AWS API and Services such as EC2 right in your datacenter
  AWS Wavelength allows you to build and launch your applications in a telecom datacenter. By doing this your applications will have ultra-low latency since they will be pushed over the 5G network and be closest as possible to the end user
  VMWare Cloud on AWS allows you to manage on-premise virtual machines using VMWare as EC2 instances. The data-center must be using VMWare for Virtualization
  AWS Local Zones are edge datacenters located outside of an AWS region so you can use AWS closer to end destinaton
    When you need faster computing, storage and databases in populated areas that are outside of an AWS Region

Cost and Capacity Management Computing Services
Cost Management - How to decrease cost and save money
Capacity Management How to meet the demand of traffic and usages through adding or upgrading servers
EC2 Spot Instances, Reserved Instances and Savings Plan: Ways to save on computing, by paying up in full or partially, by committing to a yearly contract or by being flexible about availability and interruption to computing service
AWS Batch plans, schedules, and executes your batch computing workloads across the full range of AWS compute services, can utilize Spot Intance to save money
AWS Compute Optimizer suggests how to reduce costs and improve performance by using machine learning to analyze your previous usage history
EC2 Autoscaling Groups (ASGs): Automatically adds or removes EC2 servers to meet the current demand of traffic. Will save you money and meet capacity since you only run the amount of servers you need
Elastic Load Balancer (ELB): Distributes traffic to multiple instances, can re-route traffic from unhealthy instance to healthy instances. Can rout traffic to EC2 instances running in different Availability Zones
AWS Elastic Beanstalk (EB) is for easily deploying web-applications without developers having to worry about setting up and understanding the underlying AWS Services. Similar to Heroku

Types of Storage Services
Elastic Block Store (EBS) - Block - Data is split into evenly split blocks. Directly accessed by the Operation System. Supports only a single write volume. (When you need a virtual hard drive attached to a VM)
AWS Elastic File Storage (EFS) - File - File is stored with data and metadata. Multiple connections via a network share. Supports multiple reads, writing locks the file. (When you need a file-share where multiple users or VMs need to access the same drive
Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3) - Object - Object is stored with data, metadata and Unique ID. Scales with no file limit or storage limit. Supports multiple reads and writes (no locks) (When yo ujust want to upload files, and not have to worry about underlying infrastructure. Not intended for high IOPs (IOP is inputs and outputs)

Introduction to S3
Object Storage (Object-based Storage) is data storage architecture that manages data as objects, as opposed to other storage architectures:
- file systems which manages data as a file and fire hierarchy, and
- block storage which manages data as blocks within sectors and tracks
S3 provides unlimited storage, you don't need to think about the underlying infrastructure. The S3 console provides an interface for you to upload and access your data
S3 Object: Objects contain your data. They are like files. Objects pay consist of: Key, this is the name of the object; Value the data itself made up of a sequence of bytes; Version ID when versioning enabled, the version of object; Metadata additional information attached to the object
S3 Bucket: Buckets hold objects. Buckets can also have folders which in turn hold objects. S3 is a universal namespace so bucket names must be unique (like having a domain name)
  Each individual object can range in size from 0 Bytes to 5 Terabytes 

S3 Storage classes - AWS offers a range of S3 storage classes that trade Retrieval Time, Accessibility and Durability for Cheaper Storage
S3 Standard (Default) - Fast! 99.99% Availability, 11 9's Durability. Replicated across at least three AZs.
S3 Intelligent Tiering - Uses ML to analyze object usage and determine the appropriate storage class. Data is moved to the most cost-effective access tier, without any performance impact or added overhead
S3 Standard-IA (Infrequent Access) - Still fast! Cheaper if you access files less than once a month. Additional retrieval fee is applied. 50% less than Standard (reduced availability)
S3 One-Zone-IA - Still fast! Objects only exist in one AZ. Availability (is 99.5%). Cheaper than Standard IA by 20% less (reduced durability) Data could get destroyed. A retrieval fee is applied
S3 Glacier 0 For long-term cold storage. Retrieval of data can take minutes to hours but the off is very cheap storage
S3 Glacier Deep Archive - The lowest cost storage class. Data retrieval time is 12 hours

AWS Snow Family - Data is delivered to Amazon S3
Snowcone - comes in two sizes: 8TH of Storage (HHD), 14 TB of Storage (SSD)
Snowball Edge - generally comes in two types: storage optimized 80TB and compute optimized 39.5 TB
Snowmobile - 100PB

Storage Services
Simple Storage Service (S3) is a serverless object storage service. You can upload very large files and an unlimited amount of files. You pay for what you store. You don't wrory about the underlying file-system, or upgrading the disk size.
S3 Glacier is a cold storage service. It is designed as a low cost storage solution for archiving and long-term backup. It uses previous generation HDD drives to get that low cost. its highly secure and durable.
Elastic Block Store (EBS) is a persistent block storage service. It is a virtual hard drive in the cloud you attach to EC2 instances. You can choose different kinds of hard drives: SSD, IOPS SSD, Throughput HHD, Cold HHD
Elastic File Storage (EFS) is a cloud-native NFS file system service. File storage you can mount to multiple EC2 instances at the same time. when you need to share files between multiple servers
Storage Gateway is a hybrid cloud storage service that extends your on-premise storage to cloud
  File Gateway extends your local storage to AWS S3
  Volume Gateway caches your local drives to S3 so you have a continious backup of local files in the cloud
  Tape Gateway stores files onto virtual tapes for backing up your files on very cost effective long term storage
AWS Snow Family are storage devices used to physically migrate large amouts of data to the cloud.
  Snowball Edge are briefcase size data storage devices. 50-80 TB
  Snowmobile is a cargo container filled with racks of storage and compute that is transported via semi-trailer tractor truck to transfer up to 100PB of data per trailer
  Snowcone is a very small version of Snowball that can transfer 8TB of data
AWS Backup is a fully managed backup service that makes it easy to centralize and automate the backup of data across multiple AWS services eg EC2, EBS, RDS, DynamoDB, EFS, Storage Gateway. You create backup plans
CloudEndure Disaster Recovery continuously replicates your machines into a low-cost staging area in your target AWS account and preferred Region enabling fast and reliable recovery in case of IT data center failures
Amazon FSx is a feature rich and highly-performant file system. That can be used for Windows (SMB) or Linux (lsutre)
  Amazon FSx for Window File Server uses the SMB protocol and allows you to mount FSx to Windows servers
  Amazon FSx for Lustre uses Linux's Lustre file system and allows you to mount FSx to Linux servers

What is a database? A database is a data-store that stores semi-structured and structured data
A database is more complex data stores because it requres using formal design and modeling techniques
Databases can generally be categorized as either:
- Relational databases
  - Structured data that strongly represents tabular data (tables, rows and columns)
    - Row-oriented or columnar-oriented
- Non-relational databases
  - Semi-structured that may or may not distantly resemble tabular data
Databases have a rich set of functionality:
- specialized language to query (retrieve data)
- specialized modeling strategies to optimize retrieval for different use cases
- more fine tune control over the transmofration of the data into useful data structures or reports
(Normally a database infers someone is using a relational row-oriented data store)

What is Data Warehousing? - A relational datastore designed for analytic workloads, which is generally column-oriented data-store
Companies will have terabytes and millions of rows of data, and they need a fast way to be able to produce analytics reports 
Data warehouses generally perform aggregation
- aggregation is grouping data eg find a total or average
- Data warehouses are optimized around columns since they need to quickly aggerate column data
Data warehouses are generally designed to be HOT
- Hot means they can return queries very fast even though they have vast amounts of data
Data warehouses are infrequently accessed meaning they aren't intended for real-time reporting but maybe once or twice a day or once a week to generate business and user reports.
A data warehouse needs to consume data from a relational database on a regular bassis

Hey/Value Stores - A key-value database is a type of non-relational database (NoSQL) that uses a simple key-value method to store data.
Key values stores are dubm and fast. They generally lack features like: relationships, indexes, aggregation
A key/value stores a unique key alongside a value
A simple key/value store will interpret this data resembling a dictionary (aka Associative arrays or hash)
A key/value store can resemble tabular data, it does not have to have the consistent columns per row (hence its schemaless)
Due to the simple design they can scale well beyond a relational database

What is a Document store? A document store is a NOSQL database that stores documents as its primary data structure. A document could be an XML but moer commonly is JSON or JSON-Like. Document stores are sub-class of Key/Value stores

NoSQL Database Service
DynamoDB is a serverless NoSQL key/value and document database. It is designed to scale to billions of records with guaranteed consistent data return in at least a second. You don't have to worry about managing shards!
DynamoDB is AWS's flagship database service meaning whenever we think of a database service that just scales, is cost effective and very fast we should think DynamoDB
In 2019, Amazon the online shopping retail shutdown their last Oracle database and completed their migration to DynamoDB. They had 7500 Oracle Database and 75 PB of data. With DynamoDB they reduced cost by 60% and reduced latency by 40%.
DocumentDB is a NoSQL document database taht is "MongoDB compatible". MongoDB is very popular NoSQL among developers. There were open-source licensing issues around using open-source MongoDB, so AWS got around it by just building their own MongoDB database.
Amazon Keyspaces is a fully managed Apache Cassandra database. Cassandra is an open-source NoSQL Key/Value database similar to DynamoDB in that it is columnar store database but has some additional functionality.

Relational Database Services
RDS - Relashional Database Service supports multiple SQL engines. Relatinoal is synonymous with SQL and Online Transactional Processing (OLTP). Relational databases are the most commonly used type of database among tech companies and start-ups.
RDS Supports the following SQL Engines:
- MySQL - The most popular open-source SQL database that was purchased and now owned by Oracle
- MariaDB - When Oracle bought MySQL. MariaDB made a fork (copy) of MySQL was made under a different open-source license.
- Postgres (PSQL) - Most popular open-source SQL database among developers. Has rich-features over MySQL but at added complexity
- Oracle - Oracle's proprietary SQL database. Well used by enterprise companies. You have to buy a license to use it
- Microsoft SQL Server - Microsoft's proprietary SQL database. You have to buy a license to use it
- Aurora - Fully managed database
  - Aurora is a fully managed database of either MySQL (5x faster) and PSQL (3x faster) database. (When you want a highly availabile, durable, scalable and secure relational database for Postgres or MySQL
  - Aurora Serverless is the serverless on-demand version of Aurora. When you want "most" of the benefits of Aurora but can trade to have cold-starts or you dont have lots of traffic demand
  - RDS on VMware allows you to deploy RDS supported engines to an on-premise data-center. The data center must be using VMware for server virtualization. (When you want databases managed by RDS on your own datacenter)

Other Database Services
Redshift is a petabyte-size data-warehouse. Data-warehouses are for Online Analytical Processing (OLAP). Data-warehouses can be expensive because tehy are keeping data "hot". Meaning that we can run a very complex query and a large amount of data and get that data bace very fast (When you quickly generate analytics or reports from a large amount of data)
ElastiCache is a managed database of the in-memory and caching open-source databases Redis or Memcached. (When you need to improve the performance of application by adding a caching layer in-front of web0server or database.
Neptune is a managed graph database. Data is represented as interconnected nodes. (When you need to understand the connections between data eg Mapping Fraud Rings or Social Media relationships)
Amazon Timestreams is a fully managed time series database. think of devices that send lots of data that are time-sensitive such as IoT devices. (When you need to measure how things change over time)
Amazon Quantum Ledger Database is a fully managed ledger database taht provides transparent, immutable, and cryptographically variable transaction logs. (When you need to record history of financial activities that can be trusted
Database Migration Service (DMS) is a database migration service. You can migrate from: on-premises database to AWS, from two database in different or same AWS accounts using different SQL engines, from a SQL to NoSQL database

Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) and Subnets 
VPC is a logically isolated section of the AWS Network where you launch your AWS resources. You choose a range of IPs using CIDR Range
CIDR Range of 10.0.0.0/16=65,536 IP Addresses
Subnets a logical partition of an IP network into multiple smaller network segments. You are breaking up your IP range for VPC into smaller networks
Subnets need to have a smaller CIDR range than to the VPC represent their portion (eg Subnet CIDR Range 10.0.0.0/24 = 256 IP Addresses
A Public Subnet is one that can reach the internet
A Private Subnet is one that cannot reach the internet

Security Groups vs NACLs
Network Access Control List(NACLs) - Acts as a virtual firewall at the subnet level. You can create Allow and Deny rules (eg Block a specific IP address known for abuse)
Security Groups - Acts as a virtual firewall at the instance level. Implicitly denies all traffic. You create only Allow rules. (eg Allow an EC2 instance access on port 22 for SSH, eg You cannot block a single IP address)

Introduction to EC2 
Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) is a highly configurable virtual server. EC2 is resizable compute capacity. It takes minutes to launch new instances. Anything and everything on AWS uses EC2 Instance underneath
Steps to starting:
Choose OS via Amazon Machine Image (AMI) - Red Hat, ubuntu, Windows, Amazon Linux, SUSE
Choose Instance Type - t2.nano, cost by the hour and month, 1vCPU, 0.5GM Mem ANOTHER EXAMPLE C4.8xlarge cost per hour and month, 36 vCPU 60GB Mem 10 Gigabit performance
Add Storage (EBS, EFS) - SSD, HDD, Virtual Magnetic Tape, Multiple Volumes
Configure Instance - Security Groups, Key Pairs, UserData, IAM Roles, Placement Groups

EC2 Instance Families
Instance families are different combinations of CPU, Memory, Storage and Networking capacity.
Instance families allow you to choose the appropriate combination of capacity to meet your application's unique requirements.
Different instance families are different because of the varying hardware used to give them their unique properties
General Purpose:
A1 T2 T3 T3a T4g M4 M5 M5a M5n M6zn M6g M6i Mac
balance of compute, memory, and networking resources. Use-cases web servers and code repositories
Compute Optimized:
C5 C4 Cba C5n C6g C6gn
Ideal for compute bound applications that benefit from high performance processor. Use-cases scientific modeling, dedicated gaming servers and ad server engines
Memory Optimized:
R4 R5 R5a R5b R5n X1 X1e High Memory z1d
Fast performance for workloads that process large data sets in memory. Use-cases in-memory caches, in-memory databases, real time big data analytics
Accelerated Optimized:
P2 P3 P4 G3 G4ad G4dn F1 Inf1 VT1
hardware accelerators, or co-processors
Use-cases Machine learning, computational finance, seismic analysis, speech recognition
Storage Optimized:
I3, I3en D2 D3 D3en H1
high, sequential read and write access to very large data sets on local storage
Use-cases NoSQL, in-memory or transactional databasesm data warehousing

EC2 Pricng Models
On-Demand (Least Commitment): Low cost and flexible, only pay per hour or the second, short-term, spiky, unpredictable workloads, cannot be interrupted, for first time apps
Spot, save up to 90% (Biggest Savings): request spare computing cpacity, flexible start and end times, can handle interruptions (server randomly stopping and starting), for non-critical background jobs
Reserved, save up to 75% (best long term solution): steady state or predictable usage, commit to EC2 over a 1 or 3 year term, can resell unused reserved instances
Dedicated (most expensive): Dedicated servers, can be on-demand or reserved or spot, when you need a guarantee of isolated hardware (enterprise requirements)

On-Demand 
On-Demand is a Pay-As_You-go model, where you consume compute and then you pay.
When you launch an EC2 instance it is by default using On-Demand Pricing
On-demand has no up=front payment and no long-term commitment
You are charged by the second (minimum 60 seconds) or the hour
per-second for: Linux, Windows, Windows with SQL Enterprise, Windows with SQL Standard, and Windows with SQL Web Instances that do not have a separate hourly charge
per-hour for: full hour for all other instance types
When looking up pricing it will always show the EC2 pricing in the hourly rate
On-demand is for applications where the workload is for short-term, spikey or unpredictable. When you have a new app for development or you want to run experiments

Reserved (RI)
Designed for applications that have a steady-state, predictable usage, or require reserved capacity. Reduced Pricing is based on Term X Class Offering x RI SAttributes X Payment Option
Term - The longer the term the greater savings
  You commit to a 1 Year or 3 Year contract. Reserved Instances do not renew automatically
  When the expire date reaches your instance it will automatically use On-Demand with no interruption to service
Class - The less flexible the greater the savings
  Standard - Up to 75% reduced pricing compared to on-demand. You can modify RI Attributes
  Convertible Up to 54% reduced pricing compared to on-demand. You can exchange RI based on RI Attributes if greater or equal in value.
Payment options - The greater upfront the greater the savings
  All upfront - full payment is made at the start of the term
  Partial upfront - a portion of the cost must be paid upfront and the remaining hours in the term are billed at a discounted hourtly rate
  No upfront - You are billed a discounted hourly rate for every hour within the term, regardless of whether the Reserved Instance is being used

RIs can be shared between multiple accounts within an AWS Organization. Unused RIs can be sold in the Reserved Instance Marketplace

Reserved Instances - RI Attributes
RI Attributes (aka Instance Attributes) are limited based on Class Offering and can affect the final price of an RI instance. There are 4 RI Attributes:
1. Instance type: For example, m4.large. This is composed of the instance family (for example , m4) and the instance size (for example, large)
2. Region: The Region in which the Reserved Instance is purchased
3. Tenancy: Whether your instance runs on shared (default) or single-tenant (dedicated) hardware.
4. Platform: The operating system eg Windows or Linux/Unix

Regional and Zonal RI
When you purchase an RI, you determin the scope of the Reserved Instance. The scope does not affect the price.
Regional RI: purchase for a Region - does not reserve capacity, RI discount applies to instance usage in any AZ in the Region, RI discount applies to instance usage within the instance family. regardless of size. Only supported on Amazon Linux/Unix Reserved Instances with default tenancy, You can queue purchases for regional RI
Zonal RI: purchase for an Availability Zone - reserves capacity in the specified Availability Zone, RI discount applies to instance in the selected AZ (No AZ Flexibility), No instance size flexibility RI discounts apply to instance usage for the specified instanance type, You can't queue purchases for zonal RI

RI Limits
There is a limit to the number of Reserved Instances that you acn purchase per month.
Per month you can purchase: 20 Regional Reserved Instances per Region, 20 Zonal Reserved Instances per AZ
Regional Limits
You cannot exceed your running On-Demand Instance limit by purchasing regional Reserved Instances. The default On-Demand Instance limit is 20
Before purchasing RI ensure your On-Demand limit is equal to or greater than your RI you intend to purchase
Zonal Limits
You can exceed your running On-Demand Instance limit by purchasing zonal Reserved Instances
If you already have 20 running On-Demand Instances, and you purchase 20 zonal Reserved Instances, you can launch a further 20 On-Demand Instances that match the specifications of you zonal Reserved Instances

Capacity Reservations
EC2 instances are backed by differend kind of hardware, and so there is a finite amount of servers available within an Availability Zone per instance type of family.
Capacity Reservation is a service of EC2 that allows you to request a reserve of EC2 instance type for a specific Region and AZ
The reserved capacity is charged at the selected instance type's On-Demand rate whether an instance is running in it or not
You can also use your regional reserved instances with your Capacity Reservations to benefit from billing discounts



